All right, folks, welcome back. This is
episode 18 of the continuing series of
the ICT 2022 YouTube mentorship. All
right, so we are looking at
the euro dollar.
And what you have here is how I have my
trade layout. This is what I work with
while
utilizing my charts through TradingView.
And don't be intimidated cuz you may not
be able to do this with your
TradingView. Uh there's a
I think there's a membership level you
have to have. And again, I'm not trying
to promote. I don't get anything for you
signing up with TradingView. I don't
have any affiliate programs, nothing
like that.
I don't have any, you know, programs
that I'm trying to pitch.
Yeah, I just like the service, okay? I
pay for it out of my pocket. You don't
have to owe me any favors. So,
but
I have it set up like this when I'm
looking at the marketplace.
The upper left-hand corner, now you you
can do this with individual charts and
you'll see what I mean by having one
laptop, one screen.
If you do what I'm going to show you
here today, you don't need all these
screens. But,
I've been asked to show this both in my
private group and in the YouTube
community,
what do my charts look like when I'm
going through the motions of
looking for trade setups and how do I
navigate from higher time frame down to
the lower time frame and how do I work
with daily bias and what do I do with my
charts to streamline the analysis from
high time frame to low time frame.
I'm going to show you that in this
lesson here.
All right, so upper left-hand corner is
always going to be the daily chart. As
you can see here, daily. Now,
if
you're looking for bias,
you're going to start your analysis
here.
Now, you can do it with the chart
maximized like this, start working with
it, doing all of the business that you
would expect to have on your chart. And
we'll do this here.
Shout out to my mentorship group,
private group. I mentioned this
on Wednesday's midweek commentary.
A little bit of hindsight.
Done right. So, we have
fair value gap there.
And notice that it has this high,
that low, and then higher high. Many of
you would see that
as my bearish breaker.
Mhm, it's not, okay? So,
look at this here.
Which is lower?
Is it
this low here
or the discount low of the fair value
gap? In other words, this candle's high.
Clearly, it's this candle's high.
So, I'm going to tell you something I
told my private group last night cuz I
can tell it to you now. It's not
advantageous to you.
It was advantageous for them because
they know about it yesterday. But, I'm
showing you this because I have a lot of
witnesses that I said this before it
happened cuz I know some of you out
here,
unless you were there watching it, okay?
You just simply won't believe it. And
that's fine. I'm not here to convince
every single one of you. You're either
going to believe it or you're going to
watch somebody else's channel. Simple as
that. But,
the fair value gap in here,
I mentioned that we would likely draw up
into that
and then it looked for lower prices.
Now,
let's step by step walk through a
scenario using what I'm teaching you in
this mentorship on the YouTube channel,
okay? I responded to a
lady on the comment section of I think
it was the most recent video, so forgive
me if it isn't that video, but I know I
mentioned
um
a response to her question was more or
less, I'm going to paraphrase it.
Can I touch on or teach
a specific approach to trading
or can I mention, rather, a specific
style of trading that if I only had to
pick one way of doing it, one style of
trading
that
obviously hits all the time.
Well, there is no method that hits every
single time. Okay? Everything that I
trade with and teach
is like everything else, it's imperfect.
That means there's going to be losing
transactions, largely because of the
operator, me or whoever else is using
it. And it you have to take ownership of
that. It takes a great deal of
responsibility and
I kind of lectured on that in my private
group on Wednesday.
It doesn't feel good to hear those types
of woodshed lectures, but it's something
I needed when I was younger.
But, if I was going to use one
particular approach to trading, like say
I was starting completely over, didn't
know anything, but I discovered, like
say this YouTube channel.
Knowing what I know
about all the things that I can utilize
in trading,
the reason why I stripped it all down
and created the model
like it is,
and you're going to see more of it being
applied here today. So, it gives you
like a a step-by-step approach. I know
some of you were asking, "Can you just
kind of like show me what it is I'm
trying to do in the charts? Like what am
I looking for? What's What's a way of
backtesting? You know, how can I go
through and look at old data?" I'm going
to show you something here, but it was
also given to my community
yesterday, okay? And if I see a bunch of
comments in the
comment section saying that it wasn't
really done, I'll just simply upload the
video
and prove everybody that says that
wrong. So, I'm ready. Yeah, I'm ready
for it. So,
the long and short is, it's not a big
deal. It's not a huge trade, but it's
proving prognostication. It's proving
that number one, I've already hinted
that this thing was likely to go lower
anyway, and we've seen it go lower.
But, utilizing the model,
this model here in the YouTube 2022
mentorship,
that to me is the easiest and I would
just do this. I wouldn't worry about
doing anything with like
uh central bank dealer's range, okay? I
wouldn't worry about doing anything with
Asian range. I wouldn't even worry about
doing anything with
the
well,
there's a
anything else. Unless I've mentioned it
in this model,
I wouldn't even do any investment of
time at all because this literally is
the simplest way to work with intraday
and
daily order flow.
It's simple. It really is this simple.
It doesn't feel sexy, though. I know
some of you young guys are like, "Yeah,
but wait till he starts bringing out all
the really hard-hitting,
you know, gadgets and such. You're going
to be floored by that." No, you don't
need it. I don't want my daughter
inundated with all that stuff. Number
one, she's really not interested in
trading, so I'm trying to convince her
that she can do this
with something that is very simple. It's
streamlined.
So, what does that mean by streamlining
it? And what is the step-by-step
process? Because I already told you the
bias I've had on this
currency when I taught on Tuesday. I
gave you a forex lesson. I showed you an
example with the euro. I said it's
likely to draw into this low here. Now,
here's the wonderful thing.
We don't even need it to go down to that
low
to find profitability.
How's that? How is that possible?
How are you able to responsibly handle
daily bias,
work with the higher time frame, and
then frame out a setup using the logic
that I'm showing you in this model.
Let's do that now. Number one, the bias
is bearish.
So, if a bearish bias is being
implemented, okay? In other words,
you're using that in your analysis.
You're going through the charts looking
for setups that would warrant a short
sale on this particular market or this
pair in forex.
What I'm showing you here,
all of this
up till now, if I make a transition to
index futures trading, I'll mention
certain caveats when it comes to that.
But for now, everything I'm saying in
this video until I say otherwise is
pertinent to forex.
Okay? So, it's specific to forex.
All right, so
bias is bearish
and we're looking at a daily chart, so
you start your analysis there. You have
a fair value gap here.
So,
it can trade up into that and all you
have to see is that candle traded to
there. Now, you can be greedy and try to
trade all the way up into the middle
point or deep into it, maybe even
complete closure.
I don't need that. And we're going to
bring in the element of time of day and
how that helps you decide what you're
looking for. And you don't really need
to catch that high the day, either. So,
I'm going to show you how to be
forgiving with your entries.
The
important thing is knowing what you're
looking for ahead of time so that way
you're not changing gears back and forth
intraday, chasing an impulsive price
swing that may feel like, "Oh, I'm
probably wrong. Let me chase this. Let
me chase that."
When I showed the 3 months live trading
account statements,
what some of you are not listening to
when I say it in the video. Listen to
the videos, okay? When I'm showing those
statements,
I'm disclosing the fact that I'm getting
questions by my students. These folks
have paid me,
okay? They asked for me to show them
things in a live account.
You are not privy to all of those
conversations because you're not in that
community.
So, when they're asking me questions
like, "What do you do if you get this,
this, and this, and this?
Or how would you work with that in in a
real market?" I'm literally putting
myself in a live account, creating those
very sim- similar situations that
they're asking me about, and then moving
out of those periods of either drawdown
or
how to overcome
the an- the anxious, "I don't want to
take a trade. I'm scared. What happens
if you take losing trades? How do you
overcome that?"
A lot of those executions you're seeing
is just simply me pushing a button to
show that, yes, you can do those types
of things to overcome initial fear.
It's going to cost you commission. It's
going to look like you have no idea what
you're doing. And there's people out
there looking at these statements. I've
encouraged all of you to do it, but it
isn't going to mean anything to you
unless you understand what I'm
really illustrating here.
You're not the student that was spoken
to in private with that live account
showing that actual event unfolding.
So,
just know that there's a lot of things
that are going on
that are not necessarily your business,
okay? The community here wanted to see a
live account.
You seen a live account.
But working within a live account,
unless you do things like I'm going to
show you here,
you're going to have this changing of
direction intraday. Over and back and
forth, back and forth. You're going to
go up, you're going to go down, you're
going to go back and forth, and then
it's going to draw your account down, or
worse, if you don't control yourself,
you'll blow the account.
So,
you have to commit to one direction.
That's your bias.
Here's the thing.
Your bias
isn't going to be perfect. And here's a
newsflash for you. You as well. I'm not
always perfect with my bias, either. A
bias is just an an idea that you want to
work within and employ your short sale
when you're bearish, or employ your long
trade ideas when you're bullish.
And you're filtering out the other side
of the marketplace. Unless you're proven
clearly that you're absolutely wrong,
you just simply wait for the setups to
form with that bias in mind.
Now, I know a lot of you are new, and
you want to see things taught to you
that simply remove any chance of you
losing.
There is no secret for that here.
Nobody's going to teach that to you
because it doesn't exist. And frankly,
if someone had that, I'll be real honest
with you, folks.
If I had a way that I would never lose,
I would have never came out publicly and
became a teacher.
I would be the richest person you never
met.
That's the God's honest truth. That's
exactly what would happen. And if
there's somebody out there that has some
kind of a means of never losing,
they're doing that very thing. You're
They're never going to talk about it.
They're never going to teach it. So,
you don't need to be perfect. And I've
proven imperfection still doubles the
account.
It's simple.
And you can have a lot of losing trades.
And this is what one of the things that
one of my students asked. He said, "What
if your win rate is really, really low?
Can you still double an account?" Yes,
because I was thumbing my nose at this
idea that a risk to reward model is
essential for you to be net profitable.
That's not true.
I've proven that with a live account. I
have lots of things I'm going to show
you with this TD Ameritrade account
before the end of the year.
But just know that there there's future
lessons that I'm going to literally go
through and show you not everything,
obviously, because you're not I'm not
obligated to show you everything that
the other community is entitled to.
But I don't need to show you everything
to see that account growing.
Now,
the question is is what do you do
if you're in a live account? Let's Let's
paint a picture for you, okay?
Say you're one of those individuals out
there that have got caught up in the
fever of all these funded account
programs, okay? I'm not going to name
any in particular because I don't have
an affiliation with one. I don't want an
affiliation with any of them. And I
don't have any personal experience with
my
own trading with any of them, okay? So,
that way we know I'm not repping anyone.
There's no inside, you know, kickback
for me, none of that stuff.
But there's a number of them out there,
and my opinion of them is I have
students that have gone through them,
and they are funded.
Do
I believe everyone should do that? I
don't personally believe everyone
should.
Uh but it is an avenue that you have to
consider on your on your own. See if you
want to do that or not.
But let's assume that you've gone
through the process, and now you have
passed whatever that,
you know,
I guess the challenge or whatever they
call it, to get funded. And you found
yourself with a, let's say, $100,000
account. In other words, you have the
ability to trade with what would be
considered $100,000.
What process,
if it were me doing that, okay? Let's
I'm going to speak in that
perspective. I'm not saying you should
do this. Notice that what I'm saying
here? If it were me, and I was starting
out all over again,
I would use this model,
and I would go through the process of
what I'm going to show you right now,
okay? So, be- bearish
uh daily bias, and I'm going through the
daily chart, and I'm looking at recent
price action. So, we had
this big drop down here,
drawing towards this low,
and then the next day we had this candle
trade up here. So, that creates the fair
value gap.
So, ideally,
you know, what we've seen here is we had
1 2 3 4
five down days.
Now, there's likely to have a
retracement
because we've seen it come way down in
terms of the range between this low
and this high. So, what does that make
that area down here?
Premium or discount?
Discount. So,
soon as this fair value gap forms, we
know that it's likely to see it
rally up into this area here.
In other words, a short-term little
bounce.
That occurring
and trading back to this candle's high
is enough
to set the stage for a new round of
selling.
So, you highlight your area on your
daily chart,
and then look at what we have in terms
of targets.
This is an ideal scenario, that low.
But it's not likely to do that in one
day. Can it do it? Absolutely.
But look at what is available in terms
of targeting.
This day here,
it created the fair value gap. So, that
means we can go in
and note that low right there.
And we'll change it to blue
here.
Okay? And we're going to put a little
line segment here on this daily candle,
and we'll mark that one red.
Okay? So, we have
more or less a
premium level that's being highlighted.
And you can see it touches it, but it
actually goes above it just a little
bit. And that's all we'll need to
justify a framework, okay? Now,
let me recap real quick.
Bearish bias.
We're likely to draw down to this low
here. Why? Because we had 1 2 3 times,
like I mentioned on the video on
Tuesday, or episode 17, if I'm not
mistaken,
in this mentorship.
So, it's likely to draw lower
and dig into this low. That's our draw
on liquidity on the daily chart. But is
that your trade target?
No.
Not for intraday trading.
So, you frame your daily highs and lows,
previous daily high, previous daily low.
So, we have this day here,
you know, yesterday's trading,
or what would be considered Wednesday's
trading.
And then Thursday's trading, we opened
here, we rallied up,
popped just above that short-term high,
and now because we've seen that,
we can target that daily low
right here.
Okay? So, this is the trading day on
Thursday. We open, rally up, create a
Judas swing, run back into this fair
value gap,
and then expected to sell off, and then
we can aim for that daily low. Why?
Because anybody that went long in here,
who would want to do that? There's
always buyers and sellers.
Okay? So, we're going to use previous
day's highs and lows like institutional
mindset traders do. There's lots of
liquidity around daily highs and lows.
And high-frequency trading algorithms
attack previous day's highs and lows. If
you were back in the BabyPips days when
I came on the scene, 2009, 2010,
that was the first lesson I started
talking about is highlight the previous
day's highs and lows. And do that for
the last 3 days.
If you do that, you'll see a plethora of
setups that you can do. And that gives
you liquidity pools that you can attack.
You There There's always a fresh supply
of new setups. If you're looking at the
last 3 days highs and lows, it's always
the case. It's always going to be there.
You're never going to run out of trades,
ever. Okay?
So, we have our framework here. We have
the Actually, let me change this to
blue.
To that green, okay? So, we have premium
and discount.
So, these two levels are represented on
the high and low of Wednesday's trading,
which would be yesterday's trading. In
other words, your chart would have
looked like this.
Wednesday going into Thursday before
Thursday started trading, you'd have
this. So, you would mark mark your chart
out like this. So, if we go up here
and we enter this fair value gap, that's
your opportunity to go in looking for
shorts.
Then, if it starts to go down, you're
getting this low.
With the expectation, why is it likely
to do that? Because it may want to go
down to this low, but this gives you a
nice range of profitability.
Potential profitability.
So, a range of we'll just call that uh
to a low of what is it?
What's the low here?
74, so
Six, we'll call it 60.
60 handles.
Okay? Not bad. That's a pretty
respectable range. Can you get 25 pips
out of that?
Can you get 30 pips out of that? How
about 40 pips? Well, we're going to find
out. But, this is the range of
opportunity that exists looking at
Wednesday's trading. And then, Thursday
we open, we rally up, we bump that high
like we would expect trading back into
that fair value gap, and then we watch
price.
Does it give us a setup? What setup?
What I've taught you in this mentorship.
So, we're going to drop down into
the lower time frame. If you have this
layout like this, so whatever you do on
one chart, it would appear in all the
other time frames, which is really nice.
This is one of the things that I'd like
to use in TradingView, not that
TradingView is the only platform cuz
obviously you can do this with
everything out there today, but it's
just really nice to be able to do this
with all my students. They can do the
same thing.
But, if you're working with one
screen like a laptop, and I'll answer
this while I'm talking about it. Should
you be trading on your phone? No.
No, you shouldn't. Can you manage a
trade
on your phone? Yes.
But, entering a brand new position on
your phone, no.
You don't see enough data. It's just too
compressed, and you need to be able to
see the lay of the land. Okay? You need
to be able to open your chart up and
really take in the information. If you
don't do that, folks, you're really just
at a small little
small little perspective, really.
If
you want to have advantages, you you do
it with a computer screen. Okay?
Um if you want to be handicapped,
then obviously try to trade on your
phone. Okay?
I have not met anyone that has been
consistently profitable and trading
millions of dollars and they trade on
their phone. It just doesn't work like
that, folks.
You got to be responsible. You got to
have some real estate, and yes, it
requires a little bit of investment, but
hey, you don't need all kinds of things.
You don't need all the screens like I
have and other people have out there.
I'm showing you how you can do this with
one screen, one monitor. So, what would
that look like? Obviously, you can see
everything I did on the daily chart is
transposed
onto the hourly chart down here in the
lower left-hand corner.
And
it's transposed over here to the
15-minute time frame. So, the time
frames are upper left is daily,
lower left is hourly, and 15-minute time
frame is on the right. The 15-minute
time frame is my bellwether chart.
That's the one that I go to quickly.
I want to keep referencing that
15-minute time frame throughout the day
because the information I get from it,
which I'm going to show you,
is influential to me in terms of
managing my position or hunting or
stalking new trade setup, and also it
helps me trust my intraday bias.
And I'll I'll explain that when we get
into that specific time frame. But, let
me go back for a second to the daily cuz
I want to bring something up.
If you're
using one screen,
okay? You would obviously do this
annotation here, and then in this
screen, you would just simply change it
to the hourly chart.
And then, everything you did here
would be transposed over to the
TradingView chart.
That would be on the hourly chart,
rather.
And then,
once you've done whatever breakdown and
markups that you would have for your
hourly chart,
then you would drop down to the
15-minute time frame, and all of the
annotations from the daily and the
hourly would appear on your 15-minute
chart, as you'll see. Okay?
So, let's go back to
the layout,
and I'm going to maximize the hourly
chart.
All right. So, I like to do these types
of things, bring it to the actual level
I'm anchoring to
because I have obsessive compulsive
disorder, so it is what it is.
It's a struggle, folks. So, in here,
it's this imbalance on the daily chart,
but now we can see it also exists
in the hourly as well. So, we have what?
This high
and this high. What are they?
They're relatively equal highs.
Anchored to that point right there.
So, usually in my annotations, I'm going
into the chart.
And this is for the purposes of showing
you how to backtest and how you annotate
your chart.
You toggle it
to show on the top left,
and
you can use whatever color you want.
And there you go.
So,
we have the annotations
that would be on your chart for logging
purposes, for your study journal.
And then, you would just screenshot
this.
Okay? You might want to zoom in a little
bit.
You know, make the uh
chart a little bit more aesthetically
pleasing.
Having something like that.
More, you know, more information zoomed
in into a specific area.
And then, simply go in and start working
with
the 15-minute time frame because this is
all I would do
with the hourly chart.
Because the frame of reference is that
daily fair value gap.
We have liquidity pool on the hourly
chart. We've already mapped out the
6th of April's low.
Notice there's no lower low. This low
didn't go down to it, and we start a new
day on the 7th here at midnight New York
local time.
What do I mean by New York midnight?
I'm going to answer that.
Let's go over to
the 15-minute time frame here,
and you can see we already have that
little annotation
updated on the 15-minute time frame.
So, now here's the 15-minute time frame,
and I apologize for all of you that
wouldn't otherwise know how to do this,
but obviously it's a mentorship, right?
There's a lot of people in the comment
section that are asking for these types
of lessons, and once I go through this
this episode, we won't ever have to
revisit it again. Okay? So, bear with
me, okay?
All right. So, now we have on the
15-minute time frame,
we're going to annotate the daily
dividers. This all is a
little vertical line.
Okay? And this little bar here is just
my favorites bar,
and you can Google that for setting that
up. These are the things I use most in
TradingView. So, when I expand the chart
to maximize the full screen,
I highlight the little star button in
the lower left-hand corner, just below
the little link button. If you click
that link button, any chart you have
open that's the same symbol,
any all the annotations will be flip
plotted and placed on all the time
frames of that instrument or that pair
or that market. So, in other words, if
like I was showing you with my trading
layout, upper left-hand corner daily,
hourly lower left-hand, and 15-minute
time frame on the right, it's the
biggest chart. Hitting that little link
button icon will
again, link all your charts together.
So, whatever you're showing annotations
on on one time frame will appear on all
of them. That's how this is happening,
okay? You can Google that, too, and
there's a lot of
uh tips you can get off of
YouTube for uh TradingView. Most of my
tips I actually got from my students,
which I appreciate because they're more
fluent with this.
Um I came from MT4 and TradeStation, so
I I'm a work in progress with uh
TradingView.
So,
so you're going to drop a vertical line
here to delineate a new day at midnight.
What is the opening price at New York
midnight?
That's this candle,
and you highlight that, and this price
right here,
that right there,
if you're looking at the time frame on
the hourly,
that would be the opening price.
I'm interested in that on a 15-minute
time frame,
or if I'm going to be scalping,
I'm going to use the 5-minute chart.
Okay? And then, I'll put two reference
points on the 5-minute chart.
But, for the sake of this discussion,
just know that that's the actual price
I'm looking at,
and I'm drawing that out in time. How
far am I drawing it out? 11:00 in the
morning,
New York local time.
How do I know
my chart's going to look like ICT's,
right? That's what you're asking?
You toggle it to New York. I don't care
where you live.
I don't care where you're at in all the
different time zones, your TradingView
chart needs to be set to this.
If you do that,
your chart will match all the things I'm
teaching, and the things I'm teaching
you to look for will be easier to find.
Okay? Everything will be streamlined in
terms of time of day.
All right, so now we have the buy side
liquidity pool, the daily delineation of
midnight New York time,
and we're going to take a little
line segment here,
and we're going to plot it right on
here. Now, I'm just going to just rough
it because it's basically a little tiny
indecisive candle. I don't care the
difference between the actual open and
close. It's very minute.
But I'm going to draw on here, and if
you drag your
your trend line over to the right, you
hold down the shift button,
it'll keep your trend line straight.
Okay, and just drop it there.
And I'll just make this
a gray color here.
Now, you can annotate that, but over
time doing it, you'll just know that
that's what you're anchoring and
showing. This is the opening price at
midnight. Okay?
Now,
we have the relatively equal highs here.
We rallied above them. Once it hits
this, do we get displacement?
Now, we get down to the nitty-gritty.
Okay?
We have a swing low here.
It breaks down below that. And then,
once it does that, does it create an
imbalance?
Is there a fair value gap?
Hint, hint. Nudge, nudge.
You see that? All right, so we're going
to annotate that. So, inside of this
range,
here,
we have
a fair value gap. And I'm going to
highlight this. We'll just use this
color here. Now, these are probably not
the best colors. You're probably cussing
me right now saying, "Why are you using
these ugly colors, ICT?" That's me and
just to annoy you so that way you can
get more attentive
and pay attention cuz this is a long
video already. So,
we're looking at the market wanting to
go higher first to go lower. And here's
that midnight delineation starting a new
day. We rally up, and then we break
down.
So, what's the model teach? Trading
when?
The New York session.
Okay? So, we're trading the New York
session.
In Forex, it's 7:00 in the morning
to 10:00 in the morning.
Right there. Okay? So, 10:00 in the
morning
and 7:00.
So, we're looking for a setup that would
be formed
within that time frame.
Now, you can create kill zone windows
annotations on your chart.
There's lots of ways I've done this over
the years. You can do it whatever way
you want to do it.
Inside center, and we'll make it
black.
And
there you go.
So, the New York kill zone, it runs up
into that, runs the highs,
and we want to see a displacement to the
downside. We get it right there. Okay?
So, now you have this area here,
and then you would put your order in
right there. What time is that?
It's 10:00.
So, you put your limit order in to sell
short right at that price right there or
plus one pip
period.
And your risk is going to be
above this high. The imbalance is really
stretched out. You can use that as your
stop.
If you're really concerned, you can put
your stop above the swing high. But
whenever you have a big range like that,
my stop can place right there.
So, your stop would be here,
and you're going to go short here.
That's the minimum expectation using the
15-minute time frame. But we're going to
split
the 15-minute time frame down into
5-minute intervals.
Okay, so we're going to look inside this
range here and see if it's advantageous
for us to go down into a 5-minute chart.
And does it have a fair value gap in
that? All right, so we're looking at the
5-minute chart now, and it's that shaded
area here. So, it's using this specific
candle or that low.
And we're looking inside this range
right here.
Okay? So, it's this decline we're
looking at. Does it have fair value gap?
Well,
we have this small one right in here.
See that? We have this stretched out one
here. Yes.
And we have all this run in here where
it has a small little fair value gap.
So, now think about what's been shown.
On that 15-minute time frame, we have a
minimum threshold of at least reaching
into this low.
Okay? Remember, I showed you on the
15-minute time frame that imbalance. So,
it needs to get up into that. Okay? So,
I'm answering the question that I saw,
or it really wasn't a question. It was
someone trying to make a point that
was I showing something incorrectly
by showing a higher time frame fair
value gap because wouldn't the smaller
time frame fair value gap form before
the higher time frame? No, it never
works like that.
The higher time frame imbalances are
going to be parent
to
the subordinate smaller time frames.
Okay? The parent,
okay, is this 15-minute time frame
imbalance.
So, it needs to get above that. But when
it does that, we have to look at the
lower time frame below 15-minute time
frame, which is the beginning stages of
our fine-tuned entry of 5, 4, 3, 2, and
1 time frames.
So, here we have the 5-minute chart. We
have an imbalance right here.
And then we have that smaller one right
in here.
And all up to this price point here,
we could factor that in, but it's not
likely to get up there.
So, we can look at what?
This
level here.
That is the minimum expectation. You can
put a uh sell limit order there to go
short, or you can fine-tune this to
rebound all the way up to here.
Right there. In other words, it would
look like this.
This would be your imbalance on the
5-minute chart.
And if it traded up into that,
right there,
okay? In other words, you could use
any ti- any
specific price
in this range here you can pick.
This is where the unique style for you
comes in. If you get greedy,
you may not get your fill.
So, I'm teaching you the low threshold
entry, but that always will give you the
highest risk.
But that higher risk in terms of number
of pips, not in terms of the amount of
money because that part is always
controlled by you, the trader.
You can manage the amount of leverage
you're using, and it doesn't matter how
many pips of risk you have, the amount
of allocation in terms of the leverage
that you're using in the trade, that's
the most important thing. And that's the
most important thing that gets abused
most of the time by traders. Because
every time a trader gets in the
marketplace,
their expectations are, "How can I make
the most?" And they don't necessarily
think about the other side of that sword
because
if the edge you're trying to chop with,
okay, or swing,
if it makes contact with what your
target, then yes, you are profitable.
But if it comes back and hits you in the
head, okay, you're burying that axe
right in your skull. So, that leverage
is going to be
counterproductive to you. It's going to
hurt you at that point. It's not going
to be beneficial to you. It's going to
harm you. So,
I'm teaching you the low threshold
entry, but I'm also teaching you in
addition to that, I'm showing you how to
build an additional perspective that
helps you find the better entries that
allows you to shorten the number of pips
or points if you're trading with the
index futures. Okay? But long story
short, this would be your range you can
work within, and it trades up into that
secondary fair value gap. Now, some of
you might say, "Well, what happens if I
put a limit up here?" Well, that would
be obviously a stellar entry, but you
don't necessarily need that. Okay? Uh
why I like this one is because if you
look at the 15-minute time frame,
it was like this.
That was the range. Okay? So, if we go
up in that range to the upper end of it,
look over here. What do we have? All
three of these candles here.
One, two, three.
The order block begins with this
candle's low.
It's one, two, three candles making one
consecutive
bearish order block.
Some of you
are commenting in the section of the
video saying,
"I thought I understood order blocks.
Now, I'm confused." Because you're
hearing people parrot what I've said in
certain circumstances,
and they don't understand what an order
block is. Okay?
This is why
I get upset when people try to teach
what they heard me teach about one or
two times, and the buzzword is what's
being tossed around so that way people
can sell their courses and get clicks on
their videos.
You have no idea
learning about order blocks from anybody
else on YouTube. I'm going to make it
very plain and make a blanket statement
right there. I'm not trying to hurt
anybody's feelings cuz I know a lot of
you out there that
try to talk about order blocks,
you have a lot of respect for me,
but I'm trying to correct you because I
know you have a large audience. Some of
you have a very large audience, and
you're doing things that are not
accurate. Okay? So,
I know you're watching my videos so that
way you'll correct what you're doing so
that way your viewers won't be harmed,
or they won't use something that's done
incorrectly and dubbed as my order
block. And if they have
hardship or difficulty doing it, it's
not going to be attributed to the
concepts being effective cuz they are
effective. It's just
they haven't been taught properly, okay?
It's easy to talk about it in hindsight,
but it's real hard to do it in real time
unless you know what you're doing.
So, the logic is we we ran up into this
daily fair value gap. That's what this
level was up here. This red line was
this relative equal highs on the hourly
chart, remember that?
And you're going to probably going to
need to watch this video a few times cuz
I've gone through a lot already.
But, I'm breaking down the market.
And this run here is the run into that
imbalance and above the relative equal
highs. So, this is the
bearish order block. It's the
consecutive run on this time frame, the
5-minute chart.
It does not need to get up into this
last up close candle down close cuz
that's what everybody says an order
block is. It is not that.
Notice it doesn't even get up to that,
does it?
Why?
Because what I'm showing you here, what
makes an order block
valid?
It has to have an imbalance.
Without the imbalance,
there is no order block.
That's why it's not supply and demand,
okay? There's specific rules. I'm going
to cut through candles, supply and
demand requires fresh zones, okay?
That's nonsense. I have no
affinity for anything like that. I'll
cut through fractals and go through and
find something over here
and still trade on it.
So, it violates the supply and demand
theory right there. So, I that's the
distinction and why I laugh at people
that say, "Oh, he's teaching really
nothing new." I'm really teaching you
something that no one's talking about
unless I talk about it first. They're
saying what I said.
And not to sound egotistical, I'm not
trying to be egotistical, but I I want
you to learn it correctly, folks, okay?
I only want to see you do it the right
way because if you do it the right way,
you will find the results you're looking
for. If you don't want to do what I'm
teaching, you're not going to be
consistent, you're not going to find
longevity, and you're going to get
frustrated, and you're going to think
that this stuff doesn't work because you
didn't learn it properly from the person
that created it.
The order block is all three consecutive
candles. The reason why this last up
close candle is not even traded to is
because the higher time frame parent
imbalance, that 15-minute time frame
which is being shown here,
that range of that low and that candle's
high here,
it stops there.
So, there's no necessity for it to trade
up into that last candle.
So, if it trades up into
this candle here, the bottom one,
the last one of the three going up,
that's enough for me and take it over
here, and then we have this imbalance.
So, in my mind,
this imbalance is sufficient.
We don't need this one,
and you wouldn't expect that last up
close candle to be traded to.
So,
this is the ideal scenario that I think
the mentorship on YouTube should be
looking for. Now, as soon as you have
this, this is when you settle in on.
What are you met with?
Another little fair value gap right
above it. So, what were the rules that I
gave you when it has that in the chart?
Think. It is going to be a likelihood
that it could trade up in there, but
your limit order to enter is down in
here because it might not get up here.
What am I trying to do? I'm trying to
teach you how to avoid missing trades
because a lot of you going to want to
put an order up in here, and yes, it
would have been filled on this instance,
but many times you're going to have an
order placed at a really overzealous
price point that would if you nail it,
it's beautiful,
but they don't happen a lot. It's
fleeting. It happens once in a while.
So, I'm trying to give you something
that it allows you to operate
consistently, gives you lots of setups
that allow you to practice, also back
test like I'm showing you here. This is
how you back test cuz this is already
happened.
But, these are all the things that I'm
teaching you in this mentorship, and I
talked about this level here in my own
private group beforehand. And you also
knew about the bias being bearish on
this pair from Tuesday's trading
or Tuesday's episode in this mentorship
on the YouTube channel, okay?
So, we have a break in
this low here.
So, there's an internal shift in market
structure. It's bearish. We have the
imbalance here that's been refined down
into the 5-minute chart in concert with
the bearish order block, the lowest down
close candle. We've talked about why
we're not looking at the last up close
candle before the down move. So, we're
canceling all that misconception.
And it runs up into the level with the
rule I gave you, if we settle in on a
fair value gap and it has a small one
above it, expect that it might trade up
there, so your risk has to incorporate
that.
So, that's the reason why I'm telling
you your stop loss could be here.
Yes, it might be a little bit too rich
for some of you because you want to
trade with one pip stop loss, a half a
pip stop loss.
There's a lot of guys out there trying
to do ultra ultra short-term stuff. You
might be able to pull it off once in a
while, maybe, you know, a series of
trades,
but I promise you, when you start
putting down size on these trades,
you're not going to be able to pull that
off, okay? It just isn't going to
happen. So, don't get used to trying to
do it, okay?
Plus, it's easy to do other things. You
can walk away from the charts and not be
chained to it cuz if you have a small
ultra short stop,
I don't care how good you are,
you're going to sweat it. You're going
to be expecting you're going to get
stopped out. What happens if it stops me
out?
I'm not worrying about getting stopped
out. I'm not worried about if the market
moves to my stop. I'm more interested in
the market moving where I think it's
going to go. Where is that? That's this
level down here. That's the 6th of
April's low.
Okay? Yeah, we went lower than that
already here. Let me get this thing out
of your way.
If you take this and move it out of the
way here, we have the an early run at
5:00 or so in the morning. It made that
at 5:25 New York local time in the
morning. It swept the previous day's
low. So, the 6th of April was swept.
Then we rallied up, and we hit the level
that what? Our bias
called for. In other words, I'm looking
for this level to be traded to before I
go short. So, I'm not taking anything in
London. I'm not worried about anything
in London because London didn't give me
the initial rally higher into this area.
When does it go up here?
It's going up there at 9:30 in the
morning New York local time.
So, it hits that level. It's at a really
rich premium,
and I know my discount level I'm looking
for for targeting. So, here's the
framework, the setup. We have our market
structure shift. We have
disqualified all these upper
candles here. The lower candle, that's
where you're going to aim for.
What's the order block that you trade
for, Michael? What's the one you What's
the right order block? How do I pick the
right order block? I just answered it.
What is an order block? It's a change in
the state of delivery.
The algorithm changes its state of
delivery. As soon as we get below
this candle's open,
the market starts delivering sell side.
And then it breaks this swing low. So,
now we have changed gears internally.
Any rally after that is just setting up
for another run to go lower. So, in
other words, this is a suspect rally.
Okay? So, this is an intermediate term
high,
swing high because it has the imbalance.
It should not trade higher than a high.
That's the reason why I'm telling you
you can put your stop loss there.
See how the rules are coming together?
I'm not complicating it. I'm literally
telling you everything I've taught, and
I'm putting it into the chart.
Everything was said before it happened.
And here it is. It's the framework. It's
the logic, and I'm teaching you with
great detail that you otherwise would
have never learned. So, I'm taking you
in over top of the chart, giving you the
framework, and giving you the logic. I'm
giving you the what if this, what if
that
to see a trade to because of different
YouTube channels or other people trying
to teach my stuff, and they don't know
what they're talking about, okay? They
have They have no idea what they're
doing.
This setup here gives us a nice
opportunity to get short. So, you could
be a seller here on a limit entry. So,
you place your limit order here, and you
just walk away from it. You let it go.
Now, what happens if it doesn't fill you
by 11:30? Pull the order.
It's it. Don't put it you know, good
till cancel. Just pull it because you
want to be entering on the day that it
creates this because relative equal
highs, if it doesn't drop off,
it could come up in there at a time of
day where you won't really want to be
there, and it could fill you,
and then keep on running and take out
the relative equal highs at a deeper
past, and then stop you out. So, it's
important to know why the kill zones are
there. Kill zones are when you determine
your entry, and you place your orders,
and you walk away.
You don't need to have your entry filled
inside that kill zone window.
Your order idea and your order placement
need to be considered at that time. If
you can't derive a order placement for
setup
or trade entry by that time, you have
nothing to do. And that's it. You've
You've basically taken no risk on, and
you have to wait till the next trading
opportunity or trading day.
And then the market obviously starts to
break lower,
and then
trades to it here at
2:45.
So, at 2:45, it fills it, and that's the
end of that. So,
not bad. It's 10 20 30 40 pips.
So, there you go. 40 pips.
You don't get the very highest high
and it ultimately goes a little bit
lower. Who cares?
You've You've structured a trade that
makes sense
and
it's just a really nice run up in there.
And everything is delivered on the basis
of the logic and the elements I'm
teaching you in this YouTube channel.
And you can't argue with it. It's
it's obvious. It's so plain to see how
these markets are being delivered.
And if you're one that likes to argue
and say there isn't an algorithm or if
you say that these concepts don't work
and all that stuff, it's because you
want some excuse why you can't do it
yourself.
And I don't want any of you to feel that
way. Okay? I don't get a high or
you know, get my rocks off because
people stumble and not do well with this
because I know why they're not doing
well.
You're not doing the work that's
required. That means going through your
charts and doing what I just did here
every single day.
And being passionate about it. Looking
at what it is that has been shown in
price action. What is it doing? What is
it not doing?
The things I taught you in this lesson
tonight is
in my mind, it's
charter level teaching.
It literally is something that I would
generally reserve for charter members
only. That means the people that have
been with me for a year or more and
they're under my tutelage in my private
community. So, this is a lesson that
literally
would come from that type of
student level.
But I'm applying it to what you're
learning with this model.
It's applicable to forex. It's
applicable to
bonds. It's applicable to gold. It's
applicable Let me Let me put this cuz I
see a lot of people also saying, "Can
you show it in gold?"
Gold is one of those markets that is an
event-driven market.
Okay? And what that means is it usually
requires some kind of
geopolitical or
something crazy causing it to move.
Otherwise, it's highly manipulated.
There's a lot of stop hunts and then
consolidations. It's very frustrating.
Okay? It's It's not a It's not a market
I believe that someone should be
aggressively short-term trading. I don't
think that's the ideal market. There's
plenty other markets out there that you
can do that with and have better
you know, consistency and longevity.
Now, am I saying there aren't people out
there that are making money consistently
in gold? No, I'm not saying that. I'm
saying cuz I'm speaking to people with
the expectation that you're just now
learning how to do this. I'm aware that
there's a lot of you that are
veterans that that have been trading
longer than the average person coming to
my YouTube channel.
But I have to speak in a language that
is palatable for a new viewer.
Otherwise, I'm going to speak to and
this might be too lofty for a new viewer
anyway, but it hopefully it will
intrigue them to see that there's a
rhyme and reason to everything I'm
teaching and they repeat. It keeps
happening every single day. These
signatures repeat. So,
the question's going to be is
what are you going to do with this
information? Are you going to just say,
"Okay, well, this is great, but it's
just too much work, so I'm going to look
for something else that gives me a
moving average crossover
or some kind of a bell and whistle to
put things on my chart to tell me what
to do." And then you're basically
creating a religious trading style
because you're trusting something other
than price. Because
what have I shown you here?
Just price.
There's no indicators here. I'm only
putting these areas in here with this
rectangle to highlight an imbalance.
I don't have these on my chart. In time,
you won't either. But in the beginning
while you're learning, it's important to
annotate your charts that way when you
log them in your study journal, that way
at the end of the week you go back and
look at all the intraday price action,
then you look at how the weekly chart
worked within that whole
panoramic view
of intraday daily price action. How did
it all fit together? And by doing that,
you're literally getting snapshots of
every individual day,
then the daily chart and the weekly
chart and how it fulfilled its entire
weekly range.
When was the high formed? When was the
low formed? What was the biggest day of
the week? What was the framework around
that biggest day of the week of
movement? And then also break down
obviously like we're showing you here
where trade setups It doesn't make a
difference if you didn't trade it.
Everything anybody ever learns is always
done by hindsight. You want to be a
doctor, a surgeon? Guess what you're
doing. You're working in hindsight.
You're studying medical journals that
about things that took place that you
were not there. Okay? You're studying
hindsight. Don't let these
goobers out there try to discourage you
from studying because I'm teaching you
how you are going to get better at this.
You do what I just showed you how to do
right here. And you do it every single
day. You're going to develop your own
style of keeping notes in your charts.
I'm not going to do that here because
I don't want to make a
an example and feel like you have to
do exactly what I said. Okay?
What do I mean by that?
It's To me, it's fascinating to see
people comment in the comment section of
the videos or they'll send me an email
or I'll listen to people that obviously
are trained under me and they make
videos on YouTube.
I can hear my fingerprints or read my
fingerprints in the way they talk.
They'll say certain things
um
certain words, certain expressions. I
can I can see my own fingerprints on
them.
This part
I always leave empty and I do the same
way of teaching even in my private group
because I never show them annotations
outside of the things I'm showing
because over here, you might write an
observation about something that you may
want to further investigate
that I might not even touch on in this
discussion or lecture.
But it's important to you. So, you use
the space in your chart to write those
things down. And then you come back to
that chart on Saturday at the end of the
week or Sunday if that's the day you're
going to do it on.
And you revisit the entire week and you
walk through the entire week of how it
delivered. How many pips did it move and
how much risk would have been incurred
on the trade.
So, all those things work towards a
model
that you'll grow accustomed to trusting
because you'll have back data
and you'll have examples that you've
trained yourself to see over time. And
by doing this, your psychological makeup
as a trader will be formed with these
things in mind. So, that way when you're
watching price action, it'll leap off at
the chart when it's forming and you'll
remember something you saw hundreds or
thousands of times before that generally
repeat over and over and over again.
Does every single day look exactly like
this? No.
But there's a lot of similarity to the
things I'm showing you here that repeat.
So, it's It's a matter of knowing what
you're looking for. If two
bears are walking in the snow,
one's younger and one's older and
they're walking in the snow. Will both
footprints look exactly the same? No.
But you'll recognize they're both bear
prints and you'll recognize which one's
larger or older and which one's younger.
So, that's what it's like when you're
looking at these signatures in price
action.
They are generally
very close to one another in terms of
repeating the same type of way.
But they're not going to be so identical
that they're indistinguishable to the
next one. Like you'll be able to see
that that's a different day of trading.
But you'll still recognize these
repeating phenomenon that is so telling
in the marketplace, but you can't fully
appreciate it right now because you're
only now just becoming introduced to it.
And maybe you've watched some of my
videos. Maybe you watched all my videos.
And you see when I do this and it
resonates with you, you're like, "Man, I
can I get it cuz he's showing it to me."
But then you go out into the chart and
you try to do it and it just feels like
your chart doesn't is
organized or it's not so obvious to you
what you're looking for. That's normal.
That's how it was for me for a long time
in the '90s. For a long time, I
struggled and floundered of trying to
figure out what I'm supposed to be
looking for.
I'm teaching you the things that repeat.
Your job is to keep going into the
chart, annotating them, and keeping a a
a running log, a study journal, of what
the price action has done and what
you're observing.
You can't get hurt because it's already
happened. The move's already happened.
So, you're studying it. So, what you're
creating is the greatest technical
analysis book that you're ever going to
own and you're doing it in your own
words
with your own work. Cuz when you buy a
book, what are you getting? You're
getting snapshots of something they're
saying, "This is the important thing
about this particular chapter or the
theme of this particular book."
I'm showing you how you need to stop
buying books. But there is no books out
there except for the ones I put in that
one video that's in my library.
Honestly, that's it. No other books are
necessary
in trading in my opinion. It's just It's
the same garbage that's repeated and
rehashed and people are just trying to
do a cash grab.
You're not going to learn anything
except for bad habits and flawed logic.
Now,
when you've created a study journal with
thousands of examples and you've been
doing it for years,
you're going to be astonished
of how much of a
technical analyst you are years from
now. And you'll be able to see a lot
more setups that you just don't see.
Like there's several opportunities in
this timeframe or this fractal here on a
5-minute chart. There's lots of little
trades in here.
I'm not going to go through and pick
them all out because this is going to
create a thousand different questions
and you're going to miss
or overlook the very thing I've shown
you in this lecture.
But this is the model
that obviously works in this timeframe
in this pair. It's in Forex. It's not
highly specific only to futures.
Notice that it's
pretty clear, isn't it?
It may not have been clear before I
walked through it with you.
But you learned, hopefully, a a great
deal of things tonight. You learned a
little bit about order blocks, what
makes an order block based on the fair
value gap. How do you differentiate
how you
look at the order block, how do you
break it down, how do you invalidate the
certain parts of the order block, and
how do you know it's not going to go in
the upper half of the order block or the
last up close candle before it goes
down. I taught that tonight.
So,
hopefully, this has been insightful to
you. And obviously, we'll be back at it
again next Tuesday and so I'll talk to
you then. Enjoy your weekend and be
safe.